Our edge detection method in this workshop is Canny edge detection, created by John Canny in 1986. This method uses a series of steps, some incorporating other types of edge detection. The skimage skimage.feature.canny() function performs the following steps:

A Gaussian blur (that is characterized by the sigma parameter, see introduction) is applied to remove noise from the image. (So if we are doing edge detection via this function, we should not perform our own blurring step.)
Sobel edge detection is performed on both the x and y dimensions, to find the intensity gradients of the edges in the image. Sobel edge detection computes the derivative of a curve fitting the gradient between light and dark areas in an image, and then finds the peak of the derivative, which is interpreted as the location of an edge pixel.
Pixels that would be highlighted, but seem too far from any edge, are removed. This is called non-maximum suppression, and the result is edge lines that are thinner than those produced by other methods.
A double threshold is applied to determine potential edges. Here extraneous pixels caused by noise or milder color variation than desired are eliminated. If a pixel’s gradient value – based on the Sobel differential – is above the high threshold value, it is considered a strong candidate for an edge. If the gradient is below the low threshold value, it is turned off. If the gradient is in between, the pixel is considered a weak candidate for an edge pixel.
Final detection of edges is performed using hysteresis. Here, weak candidate pixels are examined, and if they are connected to strong candidate pixels, they are considered to be edge pixels; the remaining, non-connected weak candidates are turned off.
For a user of the skimage.feature.canny() edge detection function, there are three important parameters to pass in: sigma for the Gaussian filter in step one and the low and high threshold values used in step four of the process. These values generally are determined empirically, based on the contents of the image(s) to be processed.

The following program illustrates how the skimage.feature.canny() method can be used to detect the edges in an image. We will execute the program on this image, which we used before in the Thresholding episode: